Let's hop back over to our recursion.
I wanted to give you
a couple of examples here.
Just because we're about to hop into
some really heavy recursion, so I wanted
to make sure that I really hammered home
that you got recursion done pretty well.
So, I'm actually gonna have you
do another exercise in recursion.
So, we did up here, fibonacci.
Right?
Which the definition of
fibonacci is n-1 + n-2.
Of the Fibonacci calls.
Factorials are pretty similar,
that if you have 5 exclamation point
which is how you write factorial.
A factorial is defined
by n(n- 1) factorial.
So, the factorial of 5 is 5
times the factorial of 4.
Factorial, right?
So what this actually ends up being is,
if I have 5 factorial, let's see.
5 factorial is going to be equal
to 5x4x3x2x1, right?
Because 5 factorial is
the 5 times 4 factorial.
And he 4 factorial is this right?
And then 3 factorial is this.
And then 2 factorial is this.
Does that makes sense?
So again, this would actually be even
easier to write as an iterative solution.
But I want you to write this in
recursive solution that it's
the factorial 5 is 5 times factorial 4.
And then the factorial of
1 is just defined to be 1.
But let's pop over here to the test.
Talk about what's going in here.
What's your base case?
>> One.
>> Yep.
Good call.
It's gonna be 1 and
that's just, you can return 1.
[COUGH] Then on your return call, like
whenever you're gonna do the recursion,
how many recursive calls
you're gonna have?
Just one, right?
Whereas Fibonacci was the Fibonacci of 5
is the Fibonacci of 4 plus a Fibonacci 3.
The factorial 5 is 5 times
the factorial 4, right?
So you actually have one recursive call as
opposed to Fibonacci where you had two.
So first thing, base case,
if num is greater than 2, sorry,
less than 2 rather, less than 2 Return 1.
Otherwise, we're just gonna return
num times factorial of num minus 1.
Or n here.
Here we go.
Whatever you call it, that there.
So let's go back to num
cuz I think that's clear.
Well, maybe not.
Anyway.
So let's go ahead and
try and run these tests.
We'll click play here Play and
then down here on recursion factorial,
you'll see that we passed our test.
So again, this would be 100
times faster if we wrote this in
terms of a loop not in terms
of a recursive function, but
I find this pretty descriptive
of what it is right?
It's number of times factorial of n-1.
These still kind of have to
get that like Brainspace have,
this is the body of a one
part of the function, right?
So this factorial function actually does
more work than just the two lines inside
of it right?
Because this is still gonna
run several essentially
iterations of it several
levels of recursion.
Cool.
Any questions about factorials or
recursion or anything like that?
So the question is.
It can get pretty hard to conceptualize
what's happening in the middle of
recursion, right?
It's hard to keep all that stuff in your
brain because our brains don't really
think in recursive manners right we think.
Think very much in a linear
imperative way of thinking.
So coming into this more, I would
say it's slightly more declarative.
This slightly more abstract way of
problem solving can be quite difficult.
So what kind of tips and tricks do I have?
Working through it one,
just accept that it's kind of hard and
that your brain is not built that way.
Right?
So, if it feels hard,
that's because it just is hard.
Okay?
That's the first thing.
The second thing that I'll tell you is,
the first I try when I'm starting
to write a recursive function.
What's the base case?
That's the first question
that I asked myself.
And where's the recursion happening?
Typically at the end, not always.
I try and
get those kind of pieces down first.
And that kind of like, frames my brain in
terms of like, okay, here's what I'm done.
And here's when I recurs that kind
of provides a base level structure
of what I'm expecting to get
done in any level of recursion.
The other thing that kind
of helps me is when I'm
writing this factorial
function on line 15.
It's kind of hard to accept that's going
to return the right thing because I
haven't necessarily
completed writing that yet.
But what you need to do is think,
if I call factorial n-1 I
need to assume that what comes
back from that is correct.
So you need to before you have finished
writing the function assume that it's
going to give you back correct output.
So kind of building that base level
assumption into your coding helps me kind
of move forward because sometimes I get
hung up is like well If I haven't written
factorial yet, then how is factorial
gonna give me the right answer?
And you kind of have to work backwards
from okay, assume everything is correct.
Now we need to go forward and
actually make it correct.
So I don't know those are my
three best shots of providing you
some sort of structure to it.
Sometimes it helps to
get on a whiteboard and
just kind of diagram out the calls, right?
Like, model it as a tree.
That certainly helps as well.
Certainly when I was in college,
I had a huge whiteboard my room and
I just would just diagram everything out.
But you can do that with paper and
things like that.
That always helps as well.
Anything that you can do
to make the abstract more
concrete in your brain is just gonna help.
>> Thank you.
>> Yep.
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> Yeah, no problem.
Any other questions?
>> Yeah, I got a question.
So based on your explanation,
I guess it's a good idea to think about
recursion as a promise like, well,
yeah, that'd be correct assumption.
>> Yeah, based on my explanation,
it'd be correct to think of
recursion as a promise almost.
I mean, promise in the sense of
you'd get to treat it like something
good is going to come back from it.
Yeah, definitely.
It's not asynchronous.
All right.
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> Yeah, it's a future value for sure.
But yeah, I just wanna make sure that
people aren't getting caught up that it's
not asynchronous, right?
So the question is here
inside of this nested array,
it's const current equals array.
And then it's gonna recurs,
and call it again.
Well, because those
are different contexts.
It'll be fine.